the Israeli military is again
intensifying its air and ground
offensive in Gaza strikes on Thursday
killed at least 50 Palestinians as
Israel presses its military campaign
against Hamas which is considered a
terror group by many countries over
21,000 people have been killed in Gaza
according to the Hamas run Health
Ministry most of the population has been
displaced the aftermath of another
strike on the maazi refugee camp in
central
Gaza much of the site is in Ruins with
some residents still buried under
Rubble others have fled trying to escape
the
bombing they told us to go to Rafa but
we don't want to why should we to go and
live in the streets there the entire
neighborhood here was
evacuated as more people flee their
homes in search of shelter many end up
in making makeshift camps overcrowded
and without running water daily life is
a constant
struggle enough of the war enough of the
pain enough of the hunger of the hurting
we're tired of everything in this life
there's nothing for basic needs it's
difficult to make dough to wash clothes
we have to bring water to drink and to
wash we're all
suffering we need to buy sanitary towels
for girls and women but we can't find
any we have to wait in Long
cues with supplies running low food
prices are also soaring the UN Refugee
agency has warned that 40% of gaza's
population is at risk of
famine some people can't even buy canned
food because of the
prices they're 10 times higher than
before
no matter where they go gazans say their
lives are always at risk if the bombing
doesn't kill them they fear a slow death
from Hunger or
disease Steven Ryan from the
international Committee of the Red Cross
is in Rafa where nearly half of all Gins
have fled he told me about the
conditions
there well the the scenes that you see
across Rafa each and Every Day become
more and more uh
concerning uh over the last couple of
weeks we have seen tens of thousands uh
if not hundreds of thousands of people
arrive in RAF to set up temperary tents
in places that aren't designed to host
large numbers of people you would have
seen in the report just now that the the
conditions in these uh places are are
not suitable there isn't enough water
there isn't enough uh shelter material
uh there isn't enough sanitation and
certainly people also don't have enough
access to food even if there is f food
on the market you will have heard that
most people can't afford it so the
conditions here in Rafa are extremely
dire and the humanitarian organizations
that are here are struggling to be able
to respond because we do not have enough
releas supplies to be able to meet these
needs these situations these places are
not set up to receive large numbers of
people and each and every day more and
more people arrive and Beyond those very
immediate and basic needs what are the
health risks of having so many people
living in such tight
quarters well certainly you can imagine
that uh for families that are looking
after children it's very difficult for
them to be able to look after the
hygiene needs of of their children of
and of their whole family being able to
look after their uh their food if they
have any food to be able to keep it in
hygienic conditions is difficult and
also cramming so many people into such a
small space uh during the winter uh when
people don't have enough blankets or
don't have enough shelter this is
something that's going to without doubt
have a serious impact on the health
condition of people that have had no
choice but to come here in search of
somewhere safe one of the areas that the
ICC is focusing very strongly in is on
trying to support the health system of
uh of Gaza we have a medical team that's
here working in one of the hospitals and
we deliver relief items to hospitals
medical items including supplies
including uh essential medication but
with the scale of displacement with the
number of people that are being squeezed
into very small area here in Rafa the
likelihood of uh more and more people
having greater medical needs beyond the
injuries caused by the ongoing armed
conflict uh is something that we're
extremely concerned about and indeed
we've seen uh 85% of gazin displaced in
the last three months from the people
you you've been speaking to there how do
they view their future and what it might
hold each and every day when I meet uh
Palestinians across Gaza they tell me of
their fear from the ongoing fighting
their uncertainty about what's going to
come next because nobody knows what's
going to come next each day I meet
people in the hospitals where we work
who are trying to look after uh sick
family members injured children uh
trying to seek if there's opportunities
for them to get specialist medical
treatment abroad and right now most
people here in Gaza are trying their
best to manage on a day-to-day basis
they have bigger concerns than the
long-term future about know basic items
like food and water and where they're
going to be able to sleep tonight but
certainly what is needed here without
doubt is a political response that leads
to a a rest bite for these people these
civilians who continue to be severely
affected by this ongoing fighting thank
you again so much for making the time to
speak with us that is Step Ryan from the
international Committee of the Red Cross
in
Gaza now there are are also calls from
within Israel for a way out of the war
I'd like to get across to DW
correspondent Yan Philip Schultz joining
me live from Tel Aviv now I understand
there's a rally planned there in Tel
Aviv for tonight can you tell us what we
can
expect yes people are already arriving
and it's one of uh those rare occasions
where uh Jews and Israeli Arabs are
coming together uh as you know Israel
has a very mixed population about 20%
are uh Israelis uh with uh uh an Arab uh
uh background and uh they often Define
themselves as Palestinians but uh very
often they are divided in society and
this is one of the occasions where they
come together it might not be it might
not seem to be a big thing but it
actually is and it's something very
courageous in those polarized times here
people say the only way forward the only
way to find a solution to the conflict
is a peaceful coexist istance and peace
is also the only way to bring real
security to the region so after almost 3
months of Bloodshed how much support is
there generally amongst Israelis for the
war polls show that the majority of uh
people here are still in favor of the
War uh prime minister Netanyahu has lost
support uh in the past weeks uh but
regarding the war there is still a
majority that says the the the fighting
has to continue until Hamas is
destroyed well thank you so much for
your reporting uh that is DW
correspondent Yan Philip SCH Schultz for
us in Tel
Aviv